#### Eating a salad, we do not assess the plight of migrant pickers. Driving a car, we do not calculate the increased probability of cancer for children playing on the sidewalks we pass. Even as we whimsically over consume what might help others survive, we ignore the human implications of our own gluttony. We know relatively little about others. We feel relatively little for others. We do relatively little to help others. Whatever our inclinations, markets provide means for us to consider only our own welfare. Regardless of our wishes, our scramble for goods impedes solidarity.
#### Yet even within the raging individualism of our capitalist economy we can imagine a particularly close-knit family that makes collective decisions. Such a family, in contrast to the usual patriarchal situation, might together allocate funds for family purchases and decide together how much each member can spend out of what's left over. And while individual purchases by the family's members may be primarily private, this may not be entirely so.
#### For example, given this family's special solidarity, perhaps all its members understand that every consumption decision has implications extending beyond the individual doing the consuming. Consider a son buying a set of drums or father purchasing a box of cigars. Since the byproducts of those purchases, noise and smoke, will affect everyone, the purchases are not really private. More interesting, a family member's consumption may affect his or her personality and then, by way of that, everyone in his or her social orbit. Consider the result if father spends his allowance on liquor, or if a daughter spends hers playing computer Armageddon. Since the whole family will suffer, the family may justifiably intervene to maintain a subtle balance between privacy, freedom, and the need to promote an acceptable environment for everyone.
#### But these unusual family members we've dreamed up are able to weigh one another's circumstances only because they communicate considerable information to one another. Certainly few would suggest that such tight bonds could (or should) characterize relations between all citizens. After all, families actually live together. Yet if participatory economics could emulate our unusual small family's interpersonal concern for one another's well-being while simultaneously protecting each person's right to self-management and privacy, it would certainly help overcome the debilitating competition familiar to normal capitalist consumption patterns.
